[KED-2163] Add architecture doc (#382)
quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz: ARCHITECTURE.md

`config.js` provides all fixed configuration values in the app, such as types of flags, sidebar widths, localStroage name, etc. 

`/graph` contains all calculation tools utilized within the flowchart component.

`worker.js` provides all webworker-related utilities (including mocks). 

`flags.js` provides all functions related to the configuration of the feature flag object that acts as a control on experimental features in Kedro-Viz. (For further details please refer to the 'Cross Cutting Concern' section below.)

### `/tools/test-lib` (for react-component import)
Other than running as a stand-alone webapp, Kedro-viz is also avaliable as an npm package to be imported in any external web project. The `test-lib` directory provides a react project that allows the testing Kedro-viz as a npm package. (the page is accessible via the `npm lib-test` cli command.)

### Jest & React testing library
All tests within Kedro-viz are set up with Jest, with some tests set up using React testing library to utilize their `fireEvent` function. 

> ### D3 chart rendering, zoom & chartSize calcs

Author: @bru5 , let me know if there is anything you think I should elaborate  / expand on for this section. I kept it as simple as possible to avoid the need to constantly main this doc - the new architecture diagram with the actions for the minimap and flowchart should imply a lot of ideas under the hood.

Author: resolving this since this section has been rewritten and this comment is not relevant anymore.

# Architecture

This document describes the high-level architecture of Kedro-Viz. It is your starting point to learn about the codebase.

For further information, see also: 

* [Kedro-Viz contributing documentation](CONTRIBUTING.md), which covers how to start development on the project
* [Kedro-Viz style guide](STYLE_GUIDE.md), which walks through our standards and recommended best practices for our codebase

## High-level Overview

> Kedro-Viz is a static [React](https://reactjs.org/) web app that displays an interactive visualisation of a [Kedro](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) pipeline. It was bootstrapped with [Create-React-App](https://create-react-app.dev/). We use [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) to manage the state, and [D3](https://d3js.org/) to render the graph. The production data API is written in Python and exposes data from a Kedro project.

Reviewer: I forgot to add anything about the layout engine, maybe we should add a new section about it as part of a subsequent PR?

> Kedro-Viz is a static [React](https://reactjs.org/) web app that displays an interactive visualisation of a [Kedro](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) pipeline. It was bootstrapped with [Create-React-App](https://create-react-app.dev/). We use [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) to manage the state, and [D3](https://d3js.org/) to render the graph. The production data API is written in Python and exposes data from a Kedro project.

Author: yea I agree, or even the layout engine and its logic behind can be a seperate doc on its own?

When you import Kedro-Viz from npmjs.com, you can pass pipeline data to the component via the `data` prop:

```jsx
<KedroViz
  data={{ nodes: [...], edges: [...], ... }}
  theme="dark" />
```

## Data sources

On initialisation, the app uses a string data token (e.g. 'json' or 'animals') to [determine the data source](CONTRIBUTING.md#data-sources).

You can find example datasets in [/src/utils/data/](/src/utils/data/), which illustrate the basic API structure.

## Synchronous data loading

Some data source tokens instruct the app to synchronously `import` [test](/src/utils/data/animals.mock.json)/[demo](/src/utils/data/demo.mock.json) data from JSON files in the `/src/utils/data` directory, or to generate it randomly on page-load. Random data can be seeded with a 'seed' query string in the URL, to allow randomly-generated layouts to be replicated.

## Asynchronous data loading

Kedro-Viz loads data asynchronously in production from the API, or when using the 'json' data source identifier in development. The API provides two types of data source: pipeline endpoints and node endpoints.

### Pipeline API endpoints

> Each pipeline endpoint corresponds to a different top-level pipeline. Only one top-level pipeline should be loaded at a time, so loading data from a pipeline endpoint will reset the pipeline state in the store. Each pipeline dataset contains all the data required to render the graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each pipeline endpoint corresponds to a different registered pipeline. Only one registered pipeline should be loaded at a time, so loading data from a pipeline endpoint will reset the pipeline state in the store. Each pipeline dataset contains all the data required to render the graph.
```

Reviewer 2: A top-level pipeline is actually a _registered pipeline_. That's what we make users do, they register their pipelines.

> Each pipeline endpoint corresponds to a different registered pipeline. Only one registered pipeline should be loaded at a time, so loading data from a pipeline endpoint will reset the pipeline state in the store. Each pipeline dataset contains all the data required to render the graph.

Reviewer 3: Should possibly clarify "registered pipeline" in the first sentence here e.g. "registered pipeline in the Kedro project" as a new contributor won't be familiar with that concept yet I think.

> On first page-load, the app always loads the `/api/main` endpoint first. This is the endpoint that corresponds to the 'default' pipeline. The app can load other pipelines from `/api/pipeline/<id>`. If another pipeline is saved as the active pipeline in `localStorage`, and if it exists in the current project, then the app will load that pipeline on first page load, but it will always load the `/api/main` endpoint first, in order to check whether the active pipeline is present at that endpoint before requesting it.

Reviewer 3: Similarly could clarify "active pipeline" as "user's active pipeline"? Could the last sentence be split in two to make it a bit simpler?

## Utils

The `/src/utils/` directory contains miscellaneous reusable utility functions.

## Config

We use `/src/config.js` for reusable constants and configuration values, such as flag defaults, sidebar widths, etc. Note that some values in `config.js` are shared with Sass variables in `/src/styles/_variables.scss`, so they must be updated in both places.

## Graph rendering

Kedro-Viz uses D3 to render the pipeline graph (in the `FlowChart` component), and the minimap (in the `MiniMap` component).

The main graph objects are 'nodes' and 'edges'.

A 'node' in Kedro-Viz is different from the concept of a 'node' in Kedro projects. A node on Kedro-Viz refers to a graph element for display on the flowchart, which could be one of three types:

> - `task`: a Kedro node, i.e. a Python function wrapper

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `task`: a Kedro [node](https://kedro.readthedocs.io/en/stable/13_resources/02_glossary.html#node), i.e. a Python function wrapper
```

# Architecture

This document describes the high-level architecture of Kedro-Viz. This would be a great starting point for you to get familiar with the codebase and our cross cutting concerns throughout the app. 

See also the contributing docs, which walks through our set of guidelines and recommended best practices for our codebase. 

# High-level Overview
<!-- Architecture diagram including how standalone app / library entrypoints connect -->

On a high-level, Kedro-viz is a web-app that accepts pipeline data as an input and produces a interactive visualization graph to represent an overview of the current state of the pipeline of the Kedro project. 

> More specifically, kedro-viz consumes pipeline data in a specific object format that includes all pipelines, edges an nodes of the Kedro project, meanwhile the Kedro-viz API layer makes request to the Kedro project for further details of a node object, which will be requested and displayed on user clicking a node on the flowchart. (One important thing to note is the concept of a 'node' in Kedro-viz, which is different from the concept of 'node' in Kedro. A 'node' on Kedro-viz referes to an element for display on the flowchart, which could be either a 'database', 'parameter' or 'function' element.)

Author: Thanks @richardwestenra ! Yes I completely agree on further elaborating on that difference and explain the detailed concepts of `nodes` and `edges` in kedro-viz. 

Speaking of, what exactly is defined as a concept of an `edge` in Kedro-viz?

> More specifically, kedro-viz consumes pipeline data in a specific object format that includes all pipelines, edges an nodes of the Kedro project, meanwhile the Kedro-viz API layer makes request to the Kedro project for further details of a node object, which will be requested and displayed on user clicking a node on the flowchart. (One important thing to note is the concept of a 'node' in Kedro-viz, which is different from the concept of 'node' in Kedro. A 'node' on Kedro-viz referes to an element for display on the flowchart, which could be either a 'database', 'parameter' or 'function' element.)

Reviewer: An edge is a link between any two nodes (i.e. nodes, datasets or parameters). It's represented by a line on the graph.

> Kedro-viz is made up of two main parts: the front-end web-app UI that is built on React, and an API layer that pulls data from the Kedro project on which Kedro-viz is running on. 

Author: good point - I will state that about the API and add a section about the back-end.

> Currently, the API has 2 endpoints: `/pipeline/<id>` and `/node/<id>`. Each endpoint is called via actions within the app. 

Author: good point! I agree on the order in which the endpoints should be listed is key. 

Re: the conditions which they are called - I thought about elaborating on that while writing this document, but worry this will go into the territory of too much details, and moreover given that the conditions to call those endpoints could change drastically depending on future work, which would lead to the need to constantly revise this document, hence I was thinking we could keep it as general as possible to only state the avaliable endpoints. What do you think? We could further discuss on that when we pair.

> Currently, the API has 2 endpoints: `/pipeline/<id>` and `/node/<id>`. Each endpoint is called via actions within the app. 

Reviewer: I think that the process by which data is requested and loaded into the state is probably the most important thing we could cover in this document. I don't think it's so brittle that it would change in a hurry.

Also fwiw, there are more than 2 endpoints: There's `/main` as well. Also they all begin with `/api`. See the `getUrl` utility.

> Kedro-viz can exist either as a standalone web-app (via spinning up the web-app from a bash command with data consumed from a running Kedro project), or as a react component that can be imported in any external web-app (consuming data from a JSON file instead of a running Kedro project).  

Author: another great point about how those 2 cases affects data loading - I will further elaborate on that 👍 

I will modify and further elaborate about how data is consumed via a JS object prop for the react component as well.

> Kedro-viz can exist either as a standalone web-app (via spinning up the web-app from a bash command with data consumed from a running Kedro project), or as a react component that can be imported in any external web-app (consuming data from a JSON file instead of a running Kedro project).  

Author: @richardwestenra I will add a new section on data, which includes details on data loading, along with the data-flowdiagram.

> Kedro-viz can exist either as a standalone web-app (via spinning up the web-app from a bash command with data consumed from a running Kedro project), or as a react component that can be imported in any external web-app (consuming data from a JSON file instead of a running Kedro project).  

Author: This is now stated in the newly added data section

# Our tools
This section outlines the third party tools that we heavily utilize within Kedro-viz. 

### Redux

> We use redux to manage our data flow and state manegement within our web-app, utilizing the redux-toolkit (https://redux-toolkit.js.org/) for all redux-related configuration. 

Author: oh indeed - I keep thinking we're using the redux-toolkit API ( such as `configureStore`) but actually it's our own function 👍 

yea I agree this section should be renamed as `State management and data flow`

Upon firing an action to obtain the pipeline data (either from the `/pipeline` endpoint or via a JSON file), the pipeline data is further prepared and stored within the redux store as a single source of truth within the app. 

All data-fetching from the API and updates to the state within the app are strictly done via actions, while all data are consumed by components either directly through the state or selectors. 

### Web workers
Kedro-viz utilizes web workers to asynchronously perform time-consuming calculations (e.g. for instance the dagre/newgraph layout calculation for the flowchart) in a separate CPU thread, in order to prevent it from blocking other operations on the main thread (e.g. CSS transitions and other state updates).

The layout calculation as performed by the web-worker is masked by the spinning loader to improve the user experience in larger graphs.

### SCSS imports
Kedro-Viz utilizes SCSS imports to utilize and access mixins and variables in our stylesheets. 

### Jest & React testing library

> All tests within Kedro-viz are set up with Jest, with some tests set up using React testing library to utilize their `fireEvent` function. 

Author: I totally agree on removing the tools section - these could be covered in the style guide for sure.

I'll instead mention the tools we use within the codemap section under comments on the relating file / function

# Codemap / features
This section outlines the important directories, its related purpose and data requirements within the app. 

> ## data normalisation & Redux store

Reviewer: We want to keep this as brief and high-level as possible - we should avoid describing how each file works - you can use in-file comments for this!

Instead, we want a brief, high-level overview of the data flow, specifically focused on why we do things the way we do. e.g. something like:

> On initialisation, the app uses a string token (e.g. 'json' or 'animals' to determine the data source - you can find the details about which identifier refers to which data source in [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#data-sources). The application then [manually normalises this data](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/main/src/store/normalize-data.js), in order to [make immutable state updates as performant as possible](https://redux.js.org/recipes/structuring-reducers/normalizing-state-shape).
> Next, the app [initialises the Redux data store](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro-viz/blob/main/src/store/initial-state.js), by merging together initial defaults, `window.localStorage` data, and the normalized pipeline data. The initial state data is separated into two: Pipeline and non-pipeline state. This is because the non-pipeline state should persist if the pipeline data is reset - e.g. if the user selects a new top-level pipeline.

or

> When loading asynchronous data (specified using the `json` identifier), the app first loads the `/api/main` endpoint. This is because it contains the list of available top-level pipelines, which is necessary to check before loading others. If another pipeline's data is required (which happens under certain conditions, e.g. [...]), it then loads that pipeline's data from `/api/pipeline/[ID]` and replaces the app state with this new data. Conversely, when the user selects a node on the graph, if this node has not previously been selected then the app will request data for this node from `/api/nodes/[ID]`.

You could write this a lot more accurately and informatively, this is just a couple of examples of the top of my head to give an indication of the level of depth that we should aim for. Focus on _what_ and _why_, not _how_. If you are unsure _why_ we do something the way we do, please ask! :)

Reviewer: I've had another look at [an example architecture doc](https://github.com/rust-analyzer/rust-analyzer/blob/d7c99931d05e3723d878bea5dc26766791fa4e69/docs/dev/architecture.md) and it does have specific description of parts of the codebase, but more describing sections/directories rather than individual files. Maybe we should approach it like that. We should decide what the best taxonomy/breakdown would be, and how granular we need to get. Ideally as little granularity as possible, while still being descriptive.

Author: Thanks @richardwestenra , that's a great doc ( which the same doc has been heavily referenced for the structure and format of this doc too :D )

I have referenced your suggested paragraph in the newly added dataflow section (which also includes the data-flow diagram that we flushed out). Will let you know when I have pushed it and let me know your thoughts!

Author: I'm added a new data flow section that incorporates the ideas you suggested above.

> ### `index.js`

Author: good point - I'll add in the full path
